So, guys, now let me show you our first implementation and demonstration of our Taimur, the source
code that I will going to discuss is present in this part.
So I have already pointed you to the guitar directory in that getup that actually just navigate to this
part.
And the file that I will going to discuss is Taimur example, demo one not see.
I will also assure you that after creating this one short timer, how to convert one short time on into
a periodic timer.
Right.
So now let me implement our first timer, so I'm in the final time, for example, one Tadmore, one
doxy, and you can see that I have already included certain halophiles.
Now, the high profile signal NorTech and timed out at all the required halophiles, and they are mandatory
if you are working with Linux timers.
Right.
Whereas the rest of the hydrofoils you need to include, as you tend to use more functions from the
G.
Lipsey library.
Right.
But mind that these two high profile mandatory to work with timers, so let's proceed.
So the very first thing that I would do is to write a function which will just print the current system
time.
Right.
So this is how you print the current system time.
Just take a variable of type time, underscore T and use the function time.
The function time will.
Put the current system time in the variable t, and then you can simply print the current system time
using your time function.
Right.
In fact, there are many ways to fetch the current system time and print it.
But this is just one of the way, right?
So when our timer fires, we will going to print the current system time on the screen so that we would
know that our timer is firing as per the expiration time we will set right now, let us take some user
defined data structure.
It could be any data structure.
So, for example, I've just taken a data structure, which is a pair of two numbers that is and be
as simple as that.
Right.
I couldn't think of any simpler than that.
And as we discussed while we were discussing the theory that every timer is associated with the callback
function, right, that is timer callback function.
So I will going to implement that timer callback function here.
And you can see that the prototype of this time are called back function is in accordance to what we
discussed in our discussion, right.
The argument to this function is of the type unions sequel, and within this argument is hidden, they
use it to find the right structure, right.
So you can see that I'm simply fetchingly user defined data structure, which was our peer variable,
right.
And it's a global variable.
And in this time, a callback function, I'm simply printing the values of NPR.
So basically you can see that my intention is that that every time the timer fires, this time a callback
function will be triggered.
And from this argument, people are going to fetch the user defined data structures and then I will
going to print those user defined data structures.
Right.
So expectation is that that every time the timer fires, I should see this output on the screen.
So this was a very, very simple implementation of the timer callback.
Now, let us see how to implement the actual timer.
So, guys, now going forward, so let me start with the main function as usual, so you can see that
I'm writing a function timer, Damul, and it is in this function that is timer demo that I was going
to implement the entire code to create a timer.
Right.
So I will do nothing extra, but only do whatever we discussed in the in our report.
So to begin with, I will just take a sick event type of vegetable, because this vegetable was used
to set the properties of the timer, right.
And then let me take a timer variable, because it is this timer that we were going to create.
Right.
So I'm taking this time out as a local variable.
But there is no such rule.
You can kalac the memory for this timer, right.
Depending on your need.
So let me initialize this time available to zero.
And so let me initialize the EVP variable.
Also right now, you can see aspart the theory we need to set the three members of this EVP variable
to appropriate values.
Right.
The first one is appointed to the callback function.
The second one is the address of user defined in a structure, and the third one is a constant, which
is S.A.G. with third value.
Right.
So I will do the same thing that I will going to initialize the civil BTR member of this EVP data structure
to the user defined in that structure.
Right.
So was our user defined object whose address I'm assigning to this as I value pointer.
Similarly, I will also go ahead and assign the way we would like to invoke our callback function,
so I would like to invoke our callback function in the context of a separate thread.
Right.
This also we're discussing Altieri.
And finally, the third member of this SBP variable is the function which we want to be invoked when
the timer expires.
Right.
So this is the address of the time, a callback function, which we have already implemented.
So you can see that all the three members of this EVP variable has been set.
Right now, it's a time for us to actually create a timer.
Right.
So what I will going to do is that I will invoke an API timer, create.
And as we discussed that this API accepts three argument.
The first argument is the type of timer that we want to create.
Right.
So the most common type of timer that we use is the clock real time.
So it's a constant value that you should specify as a first argument to this function timer create.
The second argument is the address of the EVP variable, which we have already initialized.
And the third argument is our address of this timer, which we are creating.
Right.
So as soon as this timer create function returns, it simply means that our timer has been initialized.
It is not yet alarmed.
The timer has not yet begun running.
Right.
So not that the return value of this time create function decides whether the timer has been created
or not, the return value is less than zero if some error has occurred.
Otherwise, it is a positive value.
Right.
And in case the return value is less than zero, then you can always print the error code.
Write.
So now with this, we have successfully created the timer, but this time it is not running.
Now, the next step is that that we need to specify the expiration timer of the timer.
That is, after how many seconds or nanoseconds we want our timer to fire.
So, again, I will do the same thing which were discussing the theory, I will simply take the item
or aspect type of variable.
Right.
And as we discussed in the theory, I will simply say that it value member of this item was packed in
a structure to five seconds and zero nanosecond.
Right.
So it simply means that our timer would fire after five seconds and zero nanoseconds after the timer
has started.
Right now, in our theory discussion, we skipped out the discussion of this interval member.
So let it initialized to zero for now.
I will come back to it shortly.
And now everything is set up.
So it's a time to actually start the timer, right.
So starting off the timer is done by using the API timer set time.
Right.
And you can see that I'm simply passing the timer type of variable here.
Not that you don't have to pass the address of the timer, but actually the value of the timer that
is passed by value.
And you also need to pass the address of the item.
I respected a structure in which we have set the time.
Right.
So as soon as this call returns, it means that your timer countdown has started right again, this
function returns negative value if error has occurred for some reason.
So, again, you can simply test the return value of this API and print the message in case you want
to know that what type of error has occurred.
Right.
Otherwise, our timer has successfully alarmed.
Alarm means our timer has successfully started.
Right.
So all this logic I have implemented the function timer Damul and I will invoke this function timer
Jammal from the main function and also note that you would not want your process to.
And so you should put a pause function here to use a pause function.
You must include the header file.
You need to do not atch, right?
So you can see that we have covered all the three steps of creation of the timer and running the timer
after setting the properties of the timer.
Right.
So guys from the time are director, you can simply compile the program using this command.
Right, and.
So this is the compilation and you can create an executable using the following come on now, note that
in order to create an executable Vueling, you need to link the program with the art library.
Right.
So you need to open minus Alata option.
While creating an executable, right?
And now simply you can execute that executable.
So you can see as soon as I run the executable.
You can see that exactly after five seconds, the timer fires and it prints are global variable that
despair 10 20, right.
And since this time, there was only one short timer.
Therefore, it fired only once at this point of time, your program is called on our POS system gone.
Right, and the timer has already executed and the timer callback, which was invoked, has done has
done its job.
So currently it's no fun.
Right.
So let us do something else with our timer.
So remember that we limit the discussion of this EITE interval member of this time back.
Right.
So now let us discuss what is the use of this EITE interval member?
This member is also used to specify some time interval in second, a nanosecond.
Right.
So not that it interval is used to convert your timer from one shot to periodic.
So here, if I only specify five, it simply means that for the first time your timer will expire as
per the value of its value member and after first expiration, your timer will fire periodically as
per the value set in the interval number.
Right.
So first expedition will take five seconds, whereas second, third, fourth and so on.
Exploration's will again trigger after every five seconds.
This will you need not be same as to its value.
These values can be different.
For example, let's say I mentioned here some aggressive value, which is three.
Right.
So it means that your timer will take five seconds to fire from the time when timer set time API was
invoked and thereafter every invocation or expiration of the timer will trigger after every three seconds.
So again, let us compile and run the program.
So you can see the first explanation, I expect to happen at thirty eight second and after that, after
every three seconds, the timer will continue to fire and it will fire forever.
Right?
There is no limit.
So simple things that that it intervale, if you specified what the second set nanosecond as zero,
it simply means that your timer is one shot and it will fire only once.
But if you specify the value of any of these parameters to non-zero, then your timer becomes periodic.
Right.
So now in the next couple of lecture videos, we will explore more what we can do with this timer.
There is still a lot of things we can do with this timer.